feat(runtime): use queued based rendering (#15471)
withastro/astro: .changeset/hot-eyes-sink.md

---
'astro': minor
---

Adds a new experimental rendering engine in Astro. The new engine is based on a two-pass process, where the first pass
traverses the tree of components, emits an ordered queue, and then the queue is rendered. 

Early benchmarks showed significant speed improvements and memory efficiency in big projects.

#### Queue-rendered based

> The new engine doesn't use recursion, and it comes with three different sub-features. The first feature is the queue, which can be enabled using the experimental flag:

Reviewer: Is `queuedRendering.enabled` ALWAYS true for using this feature? Would it ever be configured `false` while any of the two other items are used? This makes it sound like there are three equal, independent features.

(And if so, just checking that it doesn't make sense to *only* configure an object of two items like we've done in the past: you can just set `experimental.Rendering: true` to get some defaults OR to an object e.g. `{poolsize: 2000, contentCache: true}` for further configuration?)

Author: I decided to NOT do `feature: true` because it's difficult to maintain and prone to errors. We don't have requirements on how experimental features are created, and considering that we will eventually remove it, I decided to go for an easy solution

```js
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    queuedRendering: {
      enabled: true
    }
  }
})
```

#### Pooling

The second sub-feature of the new engine is the ability to have a pool of nodes, that can be saved and re-used across page rendering. Node pooling is useless in SSR, because rendering requests don't share memory, however it can be very useful when building static pages.

```js
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    queuedRendering: {
      enabled: true,
      poolSize: 2000 // store up to 2k nodes to be re-used across renderers
    }
  }
})
```

#### Content caching

> The third sub-feature is content caching. It allows to cache **values** of nodes during the rendering phase. Among the new tools, this seemed to be the least useful, so for now it's not possible to control its size:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new engine additionally unlocks a new `contentCaching`	 option. This allows you to cache **values** of nodes during the rendering phase. This is currently a boolean feature with no further customization (e.g. size of cache) that uses sensible defaults:
```
I don't think we have to badmouth the feature here! 😅 But, if you do expect it to develop into something with more customization, you could say something like this!

When disabled, the pool engine won't cache strings, but only types.

```js
// astro.config.mjs
export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    queuedRendering: {
      enabled: true,
      contentCache: true // enable re-use of node values
    }
  }
})

> ```

Reviewer: Yes, would strongly encourage this line since this is a big new feature and we have more docs available!
